Added initial stub for doc/documentation_contributions.md (#402)
SINTEF/dlite: doc/documentation_contributors.md

Guideline for contributing documentation

> ========================================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
========================================

```
[MD022](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/main/doc/md022.md)

The DLite documentation is written in Markdown.
This include both the README files and documentation found in the `doc/` subdirectory.

> Common to both is that the text should be as easy and natural as possible to read from the terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We strive to make the developer experience (DX) as pleasant as possible by ensuring as broad a readability when editing the files as when reading them in a browser.
```

Hence, the following recommendations should be followed:

> * Write one sentence per line, in order to get an easier to read output from `git diff`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Write one sentence per line, in order to get an easier to read output from `git diff`.

  This is essential for the ease of readability and understandability when performing reviews on GitHub.
  As all reviews are performed on GitHub and editing files can be done in multiple different editors, this rule ensures optimal conditions for the GitHub review interface, sacrificing a bit of readability in certain editors.
```

> * For README files, use the underline style format for main and sub-headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For README files, use the setext style format for headers.

  As setext styling only supports two header levels, README files cannot include three or more header levels.

```

>   For example, start a new page with
> 
>       Overview
>       ========
> 
>   instead of
> 
>       # Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The setext header styling:

  ```markdown
  Header level 1
  ==============

  Some text.

  Header level 2
  --------------

  Some text.
  ```
```

Reviewer: Reference to heading style: [MD003](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/main/doc/md003.md).

>   For documentation the style is up to the writer.

Reviewer: I think we should still suggest a best practice here.

> * Add two newlines before headers to make them easier to recognise.
> 
>   This is especially useful for levels 3-headers and below (which are lines starting with 3 or more hashes (`#`)) to make them easier to recognise as sub-headers.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
[MD022](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/main/doc/md022.md).
Single surrounding lines are fine. Multiple blank lines is not good practice [MD012](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/main/doc/md012.md).

Author: Removed the bullet point

> * Avoid the use of html tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Avoid the use of raw HTML.
  See [MD033](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/main/doc/md033.md).
```

* Links become more readable if you place them at the end of the document using square brackets.
  Example:

>      ```
>      A link to [SOFT].
>      ...
> 
>      End of document.
> 
> 
>      [SOFT]: https://www.sintef.no/en/publications/publication/1553408/
>      ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```markdown
   A link to [SOFT].
   ...

   End of document.

  [SOFT]: https://www.sintef.no/en/publications/publication/1553408/
  ```
```

* Use `.md` as file extension for all Markdown files.

The README files are intended to document the overall project or the content in a subdirectory.
These should therefore render nicely on GitHub.

> Hence, use [Basic Markdown] or possible [GitHub-flavored Markdown].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hence, use [CommonMark] or possible [GitHub-flavored Markdown].
```

Keep the maximum line length at 79 characters so that the source file easily can be viewed in a 80 character wide terminal.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
[MD012](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/main/doc/md012.md)

> The Markdown files in the `doc/` subdirectory are intended to be included in the sphinx-generated [online documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Markdown files in the `doc/` subdirectory are intended to be included in the [Sphinx]-generated [online documentation].
```
Include link to Sphinx.

> Here we can make use of the [MyST Markdown extensions], like [admonitions].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We make use of the [MyST-Parser extension] to convert all markdown syntax to rich structured text (RST) prior to letting Sphinx generate the HTML (or other) documentation.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
[MD012](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/main/doc/md012.md)

Figures

> -------
> Please place figures in the `doc/figs/` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-------

Please place figures in the `doc/figs/` directory.
```
[MD022](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/main/doc/md022.md)

> If you use [drawio], it is recommended that you save the figure in svg format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use [draw.io], it is recommended that you save the figure as vector graphics, e.g., using the SVG format.
```

> Then it renders well in browsers and is easy to find and edit for collaborators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This ensures the figures are rendered well with any scaling and are also easy to edit.
```

Reviewer: This was not updated?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
[MD012](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/main/doc/md012.md)

Examples

> --------
> Write your python examples in the same way as done in the [official Python documentation], by preceeding expressions with `>>> ` and the expected output on the next line below the `>>> `.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--------

Write your python examples in the same way as done in the [official Python documentation], by preceeding expressions with `>>> ` and the expected output on the next line below the `>>> `.
```
[MD022](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/main/doc/md022.md)

Reviewer: Should these not be respected?

For example

>     ```python
>         # Here is a python example
>         >>> x = 1 + 1
>         >>> x
>         2
> 
>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```markdown
```python
# Here is a python example
>>> x = 1 + 1
>>> x
2
```
```
```

Author: This crops out the final 3 backticks in the rendered documentation, maning the example incomplete

Reviewer: Did you try this with Sphinx or just the CommonMark/GH rendering?

> This allow to check your examples by running

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This allow to check your examples by running
```
[MD031](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/main/doc/md031.md).

> 
>     python -m doctest <filename>
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```shell
python -m doctest <filename>
```

```

Author: What is the benefit of this? AFAIK, there are no highlighting of shell input, so it only adds unusefull formatting clutter to the documentation source file.

Reviewer: The [shell lexer](https://pygments.org/docs/lexers/#lexers-for-various-shells) is useful if the theme implements formatting for it. As this is up to the theme it is good to always declare the language, should the theme change in the future.

on your markdown file.

> It is recommended to indent your code with 4 spaces.

Reviewer: All text from here and down does not belong in this document in my opinion.
These are usage examples and description of how to use `doctest`. Simply refer to the `doctest` documentation instead or write a separate documentation about how to test documentation.

Author: Ok, moved the text into a separate file.

> It is recommended to indent your code with 4 spaces.
> That makes it easy to copy the correct output into your example.
> For instance, if you write
> 
>     ```python
>         >>> 1 + 1  # doctest: +SKIP
>         3
> 
>     ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This should not be an issue and is something that is handled by the Sphinx theme.

Author: It is, because the `doctest` output is written to the terminal.

`python -m doctest documentation_contributors.md` would print the following message:

    **********************************************************************
    File "documentation_contributors.md", line 95, in documentation_contributors.md
    Failed example:
        1 + 1
    Expected:
        3
    Got:
        2
    **********************************************************************

> Now you copy the output following `Got:`, including the 4 indentation spaces,
> into your example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you copy the output following `Got:`, including the 4 indentation spaces, into your example.
```

Note that the comment `#doctest: +SKIP` was added to the above example in order to not triggering a doctest failure when validating the markdown file containing this guideline.

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
[MD012](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/main/doc/md012.md)

Overview
========
The DLite documentation is written in Markdown.  This include both the
README files and documentation found in the `doc/` subdirectory.
Common to both is that the text should be as easy and natural as
possible to read from the terminal, hence, the following
recommendations should be followed:

* Keep the line length below 80 characters.

* Use the underline style format for main and sub-headers. For example,
  start a new page with

      Overview
      ========

  instead of

      # Overview

* Add two newlines before headers to make them easier to recognise.  This
  is especially useful for levels 3-headers and below, that are only lines
  starting with 3 or more hashes (`#`).

* Avoid the use of html tags.

* Use `.md` as file extension for all Markdown files.

* Links become more readable if you place them at the end of the document
  using square brackets.  Example:

     ```
     A link to [SOFT].
     ...

     End of document.

     [SOFT]: https://www.sintef.no/en/publications/publication/1553408/
     ```

> 

Reviewer: Note, the backslash `\` before the triple backtick should be removed in the actual document.

> The README files are intended to document the overall project or the
> content in a subdirectory.  These should therefore render nicely on GitHub.
> Hence, use [Basic Markdown] or possible [GitHub-flavored Markdown].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The README files are intended to document the overall project or the content in a subdirectory.
These should therefore render nicely on GitHub.
Hence, use [Basic Markdown] or possible [GitHub-flavored Markdown].
```

Reviewer: Is `Basic Markdown` a proper name or is it called `CommonMark` as mentioned in the MyST documentation?

> The Markdown files in the `doc/` subdirectory are intended to be included
> in the sphinx-generated [online documentation].  Here we can make use of
> the [MyST Markdown extensions], like [admonitions].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Markdown files in the `doc/` subdirectory are intended to be included in the sphinx-generated [online documentation].
Here we can make use of the [MyST Markdown extensions], like [admonitions].
```

[Markdown]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown
[Basic Markdown]: https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet
[GitHub-flavored Markdown]: https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github

> [MyST Markdown extensions]: https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/syntax/optional.html[online documentation]: https://sintef.github.io/dlite/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[MyST Markdown extensions]: https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/syntax/optional.html
[online documentation]: https://sintef.github.io/dlite/
```

recommendations should be followed:

* Keep the line length below 80 characters.

* Use the underline style format for main and sub-headers. For example,
  start a new page with

      Overview
      ========

  instead of

      # Overview

* Add two newlines before headers to make them easier to recognise.  This
  is especially useful for levels 3-headers and below, that are only lines
  starting with 3 or more hashes (`#`).

* Avoid the use of html tags.

* Use `.md` as file extension for all Markdown files.

* Links become more readable if you place them at the end of the document
  using square brackets.  Example:

     ```
     A link to [SOFT].
     ...

     End of document.

     [SOFT]: https://www.sintef.no/en/publications/publication/1553408/
     ```

The README files are intended to document the overall project or the
content in a subdirectory.  These should therefore render nicely on GitHub.
Hence, use [Basic Markdown] or possible [GitHub-flavored Markdown].

The Markdown files in the `doc/` subdirectory are intended to be included
in the sphinx-generated [online documentation].  Here we can make use of
the [MyST Markdown extensions], like [admonitions].

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Common to both is that the text should be as easy and natural as possible to read and write both from the terminal, in an editor and rendered in a web browser.
Hence, the following recommendations:

* Write one sentence per line, in order to get an easier to read output from `git diff`.
  This improves readability and understandability when performing reviews on GitHub.

* For README files, use the underline ([setext]) style format for main and sub-headers.
  For example:

      Header level 1
      ==============
      ...

      Header level 2
      --------------
      ...

  For documentation, follow the style used by the original contributor.

* Avoid the use of raw HTML.

* Links become more readable if you place them at the end of the document using square brackets.
  Example:

```markdown
A link to [SOFT].
...

End of document.

[SOFT]: https://www.sintef.no/en/publications/publication/1553408/
```

* Use `.md` as file extension for all Markdown files.

The README files are intended to document the overall project or the content in a subdirectory.
These should therefore render nicely on GitHub.

> Hence, use [CommonMark] or possible [GitHub-flavored Markdown].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hence, use [CommonMark] or [GitHub-flavored Markdown].
```

Author: CommonMark is preferred, since we it is not guaranteed that we will be using github forever.

> For README files, keep the maximum line length at 79 characters so that the source file easily can be viewed in a 80 character wide terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For README files, keep the maximum line length at 79 characters for easy viewing in a 80 character wide terminal.
```

> The Markdown files in the `doc/` subdirectory are intended to be included in the [sphinx]-generated [online documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Markdown files in the `doc/` subdirectory are intended to be included in the [Sphinx]-generated [online documentation].
```

We make use of the [MyST-Parser extension] to convert all markdown syntax to rich structured text (RST) prior to letting Sphinx generate the HTML (or other) documentation.

Figures
-------
Please place figures in the `doc/figs/` directory.
If you use [draw.io], it is recommended that you save the figure in svg format.
Then it renders well in browsers and is easy to find and edit for collaborators.

Examples
--------
Write your python examples in the same way as done in the [official Python documentation], by preceeding expressions with `>>> ` and the expected output on the next line below the `>>> `.
For example

    ```python
        # Here is a python example
        >>> x = 1 + 1
        >>> x
        2

    ```

This allow to check your examples by running

    python -m doctest <filename>

on your markdown file.

It is recommended to indent your code with 4 spaces.
That makes it easy to copy the correct doctest output into your example.

> For more info, see the guide for [documentation testing].

Reviewer: This makes absolutely no sense to me, sorry. Why is it necessary/convenient to indent the code block with 4 spaces as the first thing? When copying the code, it should be complete by itself, it will _not_ be complete by itself if everything is indented?
You're even indenting the `>>>`, which is part of the shell even. It has nothing to do with the actual content one is writing...

[Markdown]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown
[setext]: https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/main/doc/md003.md
[CommonMark]: https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet
[GitHub-flavored Markdown]: https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github
[MyST Markdown extensions]: https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/syntax/optional.html

> [sphinx]: https://www.sphinx-doc.org/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Sphinx]: https://www.sphinx-doc.org/
```
